Ambassador's Log,
Stardate 53263.2.
NEELIX:
on the Kesat homeworld,
Though helpful during
my negotiations
hasn't been the most sociable
Commander Tuvok certainly
of travel companions.
Mr. Neelix.
Sorry.
How about a game
of "Species, Starship
or Anomaly"?
something more productive
Surely you could find
to occupy your time.
Come on, Tuvok.
It'll be fun.
You think of something--
species, anomaly or starship--
and I have 15 questions
to guess what it is.
Come on, come on,
come on, come on.
some peace and quiet.
I would prefer
How about a riddle?
Mr. Neelix.
Come on!
Ha. It'll be fun.
I have no desire
for fun.
Okay, forget fun.
A good riddle can
stimulate the mind.
Now, no self-respecting
Vulcan can say no to that.
( sighs ):
Very well.
One riddle.
Okay, here goes.
A lone Ensign finds
himself stranded
on a Class-L planetoid
with no rations.
His only possession...
a calendar.
When Starfleet finds
him 12 months later,
he's in perfect health.
Why didn't he
starve to death?
It is a theoretical possibility
that such planetoids contain
hot water springs,
which could sustain the man
for several weeks.
Ooh, but not for
a whole year.
I concur.
Logic dictates
that the Ensign
in question would perish.
Aha!
( laughs )
Ha! I stumped you.
As a matter of fact,
he not only survived,
but his belly was full.
Why? Because he feasted
on "dates" from the calendar.
Your answer is merely wordplay.
It has no basis in reality.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
To find some peace and quiet.
Where are you going?
Have fun.
( console beeping )
Tuvok to Neelix.
Miss me already, Commander?
the aft tactical station?
Did you activate
No.
Why?
a download in progress.
There appears to be
That's odd.
I'm detecting
anomalous readings.
What sort of readings?
I'm not certain, but I believe
it's a cloaking frequency
that consists...
( groaning )
( static )
Commander?
Tuvok!
Delta Flyer to Voyager.
Mayday!
( grunting )
Tuvok, what happened?
Report.
He's in neuroleptic shock.
I'll need another
20 milligrams of synaptizine.
I'll get it.
It's not working.
I'll need to try
direct cortical stimulation.
Initiate a neurostatic
pulse on my mark.
Right.
( grunting )
Now!
( pulsing sound )
Again!
His vital signs have stabilized
( sighs ):
for the moment, anyway.
But he suffered severe
neurological trauma.
Do you know
what caused it?
Some kind of
alien weapon.
NEELIX:
By the time
I reached Tuvok,
whoever had attacked him
was gone.
What about
the surrounding space?
Any indication
of cloaked vessels?
Between trying to tend
to the Commander
and piloting the Flyer,
I had my hands full.
to scan for cloaked ships.
I... I didn't think
I'm sorry.
You saved Tuvok's life,
Neelix.
You have nothing
to be sorry about.
How do you plan
to treat him?
I won't know until
I've run a series of
neurological scans.
But it would
certainly help
to know something
about the weapon.
Neelix, these Kesat
you were negotiating with...
any reason to believe they
might know something about this?
It couldn't
hurt to ask.
diplomatic channels.
Time to reopen
Deputy Investigator Naroq,
Kesat Security.
Captain Janeway,
Commander Chakotay,
Ambassador Neelix.
You've done
your homework.
I familiarized myself
with the facts
on the way here.
We're hoping you can help us
shed some light
on what happened
to our crewman.
I believe I can.
Based on the information
you provided,
it is my opinion that he was
a victim of the Ba'Neth.
I've never heard of them.
NAROQ: I'm not surprised.
In my language, their name
means "shadow people."
They're a species
obsessed with concealing
their identity--
extremely paranoid
and xenophobic.
Well, that explains
their cloaking technology.
they've been responsible
It's my belief
for several unexplained attacks
similar to this one.
Why wasn't I
warned about them
during my negotiations
with your government?
Because my government's
official position
the Ba'Neth do not exist.
is that
Most people think
they're a myth.
There's nothing mythical about
what happened to Mr. Tuvok.
Why is your government
so skeptical?
Because there have been
so few encounters
with the Ba'Neth.
And, well, no one's ever
actually seen one.
are we talking about exactly?
How many encounters
Before this incident, 12.
I guess we're lucky 13.
I gave my supervisor
You're lucky
two bottles of Kesatian ale
to get this assignment.
Any other inspector would have
simply attributed
to "unexplained phenomena."
Commander Tuvok's injuries
No offense, Mr. Naroq,
the Ba'Neth aren't just a myth?
but what makes you so sure
the pattern, Captain.
This incident fits
All of the alleged encounters
have occurred aboard vessels
foreign to this sector.
attempts by the Ba'Neth
I believe they've been
to assess the technology
of new arrivals.
They were trying to
download tactical data.
And Commander Tuvok suffered
severe neural damage.
That's also consistent
with previous attacks.
The Ba'Neth were making sure
he would not tell anyone
what he saw.
Maybe that's why Tuvok's
tricorder was destroyed.
They didn't want us to see
the cloaking frequency
he'd found.
He found a cloaking frequency?
Apparently.
Captain, I don't blame you
for finding my theories
a bit eccentric.
I'm used to it.
a deputy investigator.
It's why I'm still
to help your investigation.
But I've brought equipment
Let me examine Commander Tuvok
and run scans on the vessel
where he was attacked.
I may finally be able
to prove my theories.
With all due respect,
we're more interested
in saving Tuvok's life.
maybe we can do both.
If we work together,
His cognitive, memory
and logic centers
have all been
severely damaged.
But he still has
brain activity,
which is more
than I can say
for any of the
previous victims.
is extremely resilient.
Vulcan neural tissue
I have no doubt that a brain
from a lesser species
would not have survived.
If you could only
tell us what you saw,
Mr. Tuvok.
I don't think we'll be hearing
from him anytime soon.
Keep working.
I'll let you know
if we find anything
that might help.
I'll take you to see
where the attack occurred.
Something I can do
for you, Mr. Neelix?
I want to help.
Unless you have a degree
in Vulcan neurobiology
that I'm not aware of,
there's nothing you can do.
There must be something.
My advice is to return
to your quarters
and get some rest.
There's no way that I'm
going to be able to sleep
knowing that Tuvok
is lying here like this.
There have been rare cases
responded to external stimuli:
in which comatose patients
aromas, touch, voices.
So... you're saying
that if I stay here
and, and try to talk to Tuvok,
I might be able
to provoke some sort
of response.
If anyone can provoke Tuvok,
Mr. Neelix, it's you.
Good morning, Tuvok!
I brought you a few more
items from your quarters
to help liven up
Sick Bay.
Your kal-toh game,
in case you decide
you're ready for a match.
Oh, and I also thought
that you might enjoy
a recitation
of that classic
proto-Vulcan drama,
Clash on
the Fire Plains.
I'll be performing
all 23 parts myself.
Uh, I also brought
you some flowers
from Airponics Bay.
Oh, that's fragrant, isn't it?
Uh, perhaps you'd enjoy
some Vulcan incense.
Now, how about some music?
Vulcan audio file,
Computer, access
selection 56-Alpha.
( voices chanting atonally )
Mr. Neelix, what is
that dreadful noise?
The Chants of the Monks
of T'Panit.
Personally, I think
it's dreadful, too,
but it's one of
Tuvok's favorites.
I appreciate
your efforts, Mr. Neelix,
but I'm trying to analyze
his latest
neurological scans,
and this music
is very distracting.
You said I was
supposed to stimulate
his senses.
I said stimulate
them, Mr. Neelix,
not annihilate them.
Computer, pause music.
( sighs ):
Thank you.
Doctor.
Tuvok!
You've had an accident.
You're in Sick Bay.
Relax, Commander,
I only want to scan you.
NEELIX:
Don't worry, Tuvok.
He's only trying
to help you.
It's only a tricorder.
See?
I-it won't hurt you.
Now try it.
Well done, Mr. Neelix.
( quietly ):
Commander Chakotay says
you've found something.
That, Captain,
is an understatement.
Listen.
What is it?
( chirping )
The sound of history
being made.
Less poetry, Mr. Naroq,
more facts.
The sound you're hearing
indicates the presence
of veridium isotopes.
Residual particles
from the Ba'Neths'
cloaking field.
You've detected
these isotopes before?
after they've decayed.
Yes, but only
You see, veridium has
a very brief half-life--
less than 70 hours.
The previous sites I've
studied have been months,
sometimes years old!
But these isotopes
are still active.
We can use Mr. Naroq's
photolitic converter
to illuminate them.
why this is an historic moment?
So you see, Captain,
what the Ba'Neth look like.
We may finally learn
Well, let's see
what we've got.
You don't know how long
I've waited to meet you.
So, the Ba'Neth aren't a myth
after all.
This is the clearest image
ever captured!
I believe I can adjust
Perhaps.
our internal sensors
to improve it.
What are you doing?
What are you...
You might disrupt
the image entirely.
Tentacles!
they were multipeds.
I always suspected
Doctor to the Captain.
Please report to Sick Bay.
I'm on my way.
if we can integrate
Seven...
into the deflector array,
photolitic technology
Mr. Naroq's
we might be able to de-cloak
a Ba'Neth ship.
The technology only
works at close range.
We have to find
the ship before
we can expose it.
We still need that
cloaking frequency.
One step at a time.
The Vulcan brain--
DOCTOR:
wrapped inside an enigma,
a puzzle
housed inside a cranium.
Tuvok's neural pathways
have begun to bypass
the damaged tissue.
They're forming
new synaptic connections.
In effect, his brain
is rewiring itself.
Whether this is due
to my neurostatic therapy
rehabilitation regimen
or Neelix's
or some combination of the two,
I can't be certain.
Is there any chance he'll
make a full recovery?
It's much too soon to say,
and he's already regained
but he's alert
his basic motor skills.
But still no speech.
NEELIX:
It's only a matter
of time, Captain.
Look how far
he's come already.
I hope you're right, Neelix.
But if he could talk,
to tell us something about
that cloaking frequency.
he might be able
how much he recalls.
We're not sure
we're not certain
For that matter,
or even knows who he is.
he recognizes any of us
I'm going to take him
on a tour of the ship.
The Doctor thinks that
familiar sights and sounds
might get the old
synaptic juices flowing.
Don't worry, Captain.
Tuvok will be back
to his old self
before you can say,
"live long and prosper."
I've brought a visitor.
CHAKOTAY:
Good to see you
up and around.
You remember
Commander Chakotay.
We were just running
a shield diagnostic.
Would you like
to take a look?
This is Tactical Station,
where you work.
Just keeping it
warm for you.
Hope you don't mind.
That's the shield array.
This controls
the tractor emitters.
I think he remembers it.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
You just activated
the photon torpedo banks.
That's all
right, Tuvok.
Everybody
makes mistakes.
We'll be back later.
Last... but not least...
your quarters.
You spend a lot
of time here,
reading...
meditating...
Mr. Paris once
referred to it
as the "Vulcan Vault."
( chuckles )
Ahh...
Well, look around, explore.
Astrometrics to the Bridge.
Mr. Naroq and I
have completed our
deflector modifications.
We're ready
to test the array.
Stand by. Reduce speed
to one-quarter impulse.
to the deflector array.
Harry, full power
KIM:
Aye.
All right, Seven...
do it.
Activating the deflector.
a pretty successful test.
I'd call that
They've been watching
us all along.
Hail them.
Which one?
There's practically
a fleet out there.
This is Captain Kathryn Janeway
Starship Voyager.
of the Federation
We intend you no harm.
They're charging weapons.
Shields.
They're scrambling, Captain,
in all directions.
Follow the lead vessel.
( crying out )
It's okay, Tuvok.
I'm here with you.
Everything is going
to be all right.
You're safe with me.
Still no response
to our hails.
I hate to ruin a good chase,
but the Ba'Neth ship
the deflector's range.
is moving out of
their cloaking frequency?
Seven, can you get
They're blocking our scans.
We've lost them.
They're gone now, Tuvok.
I told you you'd be safe.
Yes...
you did.
Tuvok?
What?
Tell me, what did I do?
You told me...
I wouldn't be hurt.
Do you know who I am?
You are Neelix.
I'm safe... with you.
We need Tuvok to tell us
anything he can remember
about the attack.
Captain, he may be
talking again,
he's ready to be interrogated.
but that doesn't mean
He's beginning
to experience emotions--
volatile ones.
During this last encounter with
the Ba'Neth, he was terrified.
We'll tread lightly,
I promise.
you can come in now.
All right, Tuvok,
It's nice to see you.
Captain Janeway.
That's right.
This is Mr. Naroq.
Please sit down.
Two days ago, you
were aboard a shuttle
with Mr. Neelix.
You detected
a cloaked intruder.
He attacked you.
Yes...
th-that's why I'm having
difficulty now.
Yes, and in order
to help you,
we have to find
the people who hurt you.
Before the intruder
injured you,
you managed to scan
him with this.
You recorded his
cloaking frequency,
but the tricorder
was damaged
and the information
was lost.
Can you tell us anything
about that frequency?
Try to remember.
I was scanning.
That's right.
What did you see?
Try!
I... I don't remember.
JANEWAY: All right,
that's enough.
We're done for now.
But, Captain...
Join Seven of Nine
in Astrometrics.
See if she's made any progress
with the Ba'Neth.
Well, uh, we should
be going, too.
A few of the crew have
offered to help with
Tuvok's rehabilitation.
I thought we might have lunch
later, just the two of us.
I prefer to stay with Neelix.
Oh, Tuvok... I'm-I'm sure
that you would...
It's all right.
You two go ahead.
I have a lot of work
to do anyway.
Oh...
The object of the game
is to turn this
jumble of rods
into a perfect sphere.
We take turns
positioning our pieces.
Whoever gets the shape
to appear first wins.
I like the way it looks now.
( chuckling )
What do you say
we give it a try?
of your favorite games, Tuvok.
This has always been one
It helps keep
your logic sharp.
I'll go first.
Now you.
Go ahead.
I don't like this game.
When you first taught me
how to play,
I wasn't very good, either,
but you kept encouraging me
and pretty soon, I scored
my first kal-toh.
It just takes
practice,
that's all.
You can do it.
Try again.
I don't like this game!
The Doctor helped me access
my personnel file.
NEELIX:
Nice picture.
You should see mine.
It's awful.
I was an instructor
at Starfleet Academy.
I've received
17 commendations
for valor.
I'm a husband...
a father.
You're an extraordinary fellow,
Tuvok.
an extraordinary fellow.
I was
You're still the same person.
Then why do I no longer work
on the Bridge?
We talked about that.
You had an accident.
And now I'm not smart enough.
Tuvok, you've just
got to be patient.
Look how much progress
you've made already.
He... could dismantle
a photonic warhead
in... in less than
30 seconds.
I can't even play kal-toh.
It's going to take time,
but you'll relearn
all those things.
How do you know that?
The Doctor?
Well, because the Doctor...
The Doctor doesn't know
how to make me better!
Does he?
Well, not yet, but...
I'll never be him again!
You don't know that.
The Vulcan mind...
I'm not a Vulcan!
Not anymore!
( angry grunting )
What's going on?
It's okay, Doctor.
I can handle this.
Please, Tuvok,
try to relax.
Everything's
going to be fine.
No! Nothing's fine!
Get away from me!
You'd better go.
Now, Mr. Neelix!
I'll take it from here.
I didn't mean to interrupt.
Oh, sorry;
You didn't.
Yes, I did.
You were pondering...
something difficult,
by the looks of it.
Anything I can help you with?
Unlikely.
Try me.
How do you find something
that's invisible?
The Ba'Neth.
We have the ability
to illuminate them,
we must first locate them,
but to do so,
which we cannot accomplish
cloaking frequency.
without their
That's quite a riddle.
One that we might
be able to solve
if Commander Tuvok could tell us
what he saw.
How is his
rehabilitation
progressing?
Well, I thought
it was going great, but now...
let's just say that I've got
a riddle of my own.
Try me.
All right.
When is a Vulcan
no longer a Vulcan?
When his genetic code
is sufficiently altered.
No. I-I-I was speaking
metaphorically.
In that case, a person
is no longer Vulcan
when he's lost his logic.
Right! And how
does he get it back?
He must be taught.
Exactly, but what
if he's brain damaged
and emotionally
unstable?
How does he learn?
It may be impossible
for him to learn
what you're trying
to teach.
Well, thanks
for the pep talk.
I was merely suggesting
that you adapt to
the circumstances.
What circumstances?!
Are you saying that the,
the Tuvok I know is gone--
that I should stop
trying to help him?
When I was separated
from the collective,
I, too, was damaged.
I was no longer connected
to the hive mind.
I lost many abilities that
I had acquired as a drone,
but I adapted.
Because Captain Janeway
didn't give up on you.
She kept trying to help you.
But not by restoring me
to what I'd been--
by helping me discover
what I could become.
What are you making?
A flower.
It's for you.
Thank you.
I'm not sure
I deserve a gift.
I shouldn't have
shouted at you.
I was angry.
I'm sorry.
You were frustrated.
I don't blame you.
I'm the one who
should be apologizing.
Why?
Because I was pushing
you too hard.
I was trying to mold you
into something you weren't.
You were disappointed in me
because I can't
do anything as well
as I did before.
Maybe there are things
that you can do better.
What can I do better?
Well... this, for example.
You would've
considered it
an "illogical use
of your time."
It's not good.
No, it's wonderful.
It's... creative.
It's a symbol of friendship.
Before your accident,
you never would
have considered
that my feelings
might have been hurt.
You, you would have certainly
never have made me a gift.
We weren't friends?
Well, uh...
we were colleagues,
and I certainly felt affection
for you.
But I didn't return
those feelings.
You... tolerated me.
I don't understand.
You said things like
( imitating Tuvok ):
"Mr. Neelix, please contain
your exuberance."
And, uh, "Mr. Neelix,
I have no desire for fun."
And you never smiled.
( both laughing )
You got a much better
sense of humor now.
I like to smile.
Me, too.
I don't want to play
kal-toh anymore...
or-or meditate...
or... work on
logic problems.
You don't have to.
What can we do instead?
Whatever you want.
Teach me things
that you like to do.
Here we are--
a triple-chocolate
wikki fruit sundae
with warm fettran sauce.
Fettran sauce on...
a sundae?
Wait till you taste it.
And you really made this?
As Neelix says,
dig in.
Mmm... this is great.
This is
fantastic.
What did I tell you?
Tuvok has a
flair for food.
All morning, he's been
creating new recipes,
using combinations
of ingredients
that I, I never would
have imagined.
For example...
a terra nut soufflé...
Jimbalian fudge cake
with peppermint coulis...
sweet leola root tart.
Mmm!
Only desserts?
How come?
Ha!
They taste good.
Yeah, you better watch out,
Neelix. Tuvok may put you
out of a job.
From your mouth to
the Captain's ears.
She must have heard me.
( both laugh )
What's all this?
We're having fun.
Uh, turns out Tuvok is
quite the pastry chef.
Would you like
some terra-nut
soufflé, Captain?
Oh, I'd love some.
Thank you.
that is delicious.
Oh...
I'm pleased that
you like it.
What are you
making now?
Pistachio cake with
parra cream sauce.
Oh, parra cream's
my favorite.
Then you'll have
the first piece.
remembered anything more
Tuvok, have you
about what happened
on the Flyer?
a cloaking frequency.
I detected
Yes, that's right.
Can you describe it?
I don't know, I, I...
Did it have
a symmetric modulation?
Was the amplitude
constant?
I-I don't understand.
It's all right.
I don't mean
to push you, Tuvok,
but maybe if we could...
It's difficult for him,
Captain.
Maybe you can try again
tomorrow.
This...
This is what I saw.
What is it?
A cloaking frequency.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
The computer has analyzed
Tuvok's diagram
the Ba'Neth cloaking
and identified
frequency.
We've narrowed the search
to a handful of systems.
Here we go, Captain.
A nine-million terawatt
cloaking field in Grid 216.
Nine million terawatts.
Whatever they're hiding,
it's huge.
Alter course, Mr. Paris.
PARIS:
Yes, ma'am.
Bridge to Astrometrics.
Status.
The deflector array
is ready, Captain.
SEVEN:
Raise shields.
Aye, Captain.
PARIS:
We're within range.
All right, Seven...
light them up.
It's an armed outpost.
KIM:
3,000 life signs, 22 ships.
Approximately
Hail them.
No response, Captain.
They're charging weapons.
Open a channel,
all subspace bands.
They're firing.
Cease fire immediately...
the coordinates of this outpost
to the Kesat homeworld.
or I'll transmit
That got their attention.
attacked one of my crewmen.
a member of your species
Several days ago,
In order to treat him,
He was badly injured.
about the weapon that was used.
I need to know more
They're responding.
Audio only.
We do not share technology.
But you take it from others.
The attacker was downloading
our tactical database
when the incident occurred.
potential threats.
We must assess
Paranoid,
just as I predicted.
In exchange for information
about your weapon,
we'll provide you
with tactical data
we've recently encountered.
on several species
potential threats all you want.
You can assess their
The Kesat investigator
aboard your vessel
cannot be trusted.
You know about me?
You have been attempting
to expose us for years.
You must be stopped.
You are a threat.
They're charging
weapons again.
Wait.
It was
my photolitic converter
that allowed Voyager
to de-cloak you.
If you give Captain Janeway
what she wants,
I'll give you the converter.
You can use it
to adapt your technology
so ours can no longer
expose you.
I doubt you'll get
as enticing an offer
from the Kesat homeworld.
if you forced me to hail them.
It would be a shame
We have an agreement.
( mid-tempo jazz playing )
( door chimes )
Enter.
What are you listening to?
from Tom's jazz database--
A selection
it really swings.
( laughing )
Computer, pause the music.
I've been reviewing
the holodeck files.
I wish to visit the Risa
Water Recreation Park.
Will you accompany me?
Maybe after
your doctor's appointment.
Appointment?
The Doctor's analyzed
the Ba'Neth weapon,
and he's devised
a procedure to treat you.
You... you should be
proud of yourself.
I-if you hadn't drawn
that picture on the cake,
we may never have found
a treatment.
I wish I never
drew that picture.
Why?
Because I don't wish
to undergo the procedure.
You're having
preoperative jitters.
That's all.
Don't worry.
Everyone gets them.
Just think about it.
In a few hours,
you'll be yourself again.
I am myself.
But... you'll be able
to do all the things
that you used to do--
work on the Bridge,
advise the Captain.
I want to be
able to have fun.
With you.
I won't be able to.
Will I?
Well...
you won't call it fun.
"deriving satisfaction,"
You'll call it
but it's basically
the same thing.
experience emotions.
You'll still
But I won't express them.
Probably not.
how much I enjoy being with you?
Then how will you know
You've just told me.
We'll still be friends?
Of course.
merely tolerate you?
Even if I...
I'd be lying if I told you
that things between us
will stay the same.
Well, then, why?
Why do you want me to go back
to the way I was?
Because this crew needs
its Tactical Officer
on the Bridge,
and I wouldn't be
a very good friend
that you'd be nicer to me.
if I ignored that just so
Mr. Tuvok, I
was beginning
to think you
weren't coming.
I was experiencing
preoperative jitters.
Neelix helped me
overcome them.
Glad to hear it.
Now, please
lie down.
after the procedure?
I'll see you
Of course.
I'm going to miss him.
Me, too.
Hello, Commander.
Mr. Neelix.
It's good to see
you up and about.
Are you feeling better?
The Doctor has approved
my return to duty.
That's wonderful news.
How about a celebratory
glass of champagne?
Tea will suffice.
Of course.
a special dinner tonight,
I'm preparing
in honor of your recovery.
that you'd be interested
I don't suppose
of your famous desserts.
in preparing one
I have much more important
things to do
than engage in the preparation
of nutritionally
deficient foods.
Maybe another time.
Sundays.
I beg your pardon?
further consideration
to your riddle
I have given
regarding the Ensign
who survived
by consuming the "dates"
from his calendar.
It occurs to me
that he could also have eaten
the "Sundays."
That's a very clever answer,
Mr. Vulcan.
But it's not very logical,
is it?
No.
It's not.